Janet Jackson how she went from this to  this belly just ask you this once and  for all the Super Bowl scandal the first  and last time she says she's talking  about it were you upset about it were  you angry the love of her life to our  children together  Oh bra Janet Jackson one on one was  there a point though where you thought  okay gone too far  just one year ago this music superstar  was almost unrecognizable but a lot can  happen in a year today she has a new  body  [Applause]  okay a new CD and a man she says is  rocking her world please welcome  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Music]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  coming up how did Janet drop sixty  pounds in just four months I'm gonna ask  her all about that  and later the Super Bowl controversy  Janet says she's talking about it for  the first and the last time today  [Music]  [Applause]  [Applause]  Janet Jackson her new CD 20 y ou 20  years old is in stores tomorrow Janet  [Applause]  Janet recently celebrated her 40th  birthday so how does 40 feel to you miss  Jackson it feels great it does yeah yeah  I think I just got out of high school  yeah yeah I do I think you look so  you're the you're the new 25:42 25 I  know that's what they're saying that I'm  I'm the new Ortiz the new 20 or  something but you you look at and yeah  you really look great well thanks thanks  [Applause]  at 40 that you wished you had known in  your 20s what do I know  wiser more confident and you told me  something that's so so true what  director at Ali's party uh-huh  you said that when you get into your 40s  you start to not care about what other  people here and it's I see it's starting  to happen it was ready to happen in like  38 39 and it's really starting you know  who told me that Camille Cosby told me  that many years ago before I was 40 and  it's really true something happens to  you I think it's the recognition that  this is your life yes yeah and so you  don't care as much as about what other  people think about your life mm-hmm well  you might have seen these photos of  Janet on newsstands many months ago as  you can see she is a little heavier 60  pounds heavier there no that's not a  picture I've seen you see yeah this is  what I'm there I saw that photograph  several months ago I didn't understand  how anybody could know that was you  right so everybody can see you are what  60 pounds is it 60 pounds heavier  lighter Thanks now and showing off our  new bod on the covers of mini magazines  how long did it take you to lose this  about four months  [Applause]  many of you know Genet was at my legends  ball and then when we did a premiere of  the legend special Janet came and that  was the first time you'd made a public  appearance yes after losing the waiting  the first thing I said to her when I saw  her give me the pill I said give me the  pill I hold no judgment just give me the  pill whatever it is what how did you  lose weight these two guys in the front  row David all in my nutritionists and  Tony Martinez my trainer how do you lose  60 pounds in four months  how is that how is that even possible to  do that a lot of hard work what's she  eating were you eating yes I was  actually eating five to six times a day  were you eating food yes I was having  small portions every three to four hours  so I was eating all day long even when I  didn't want to eat uh-huh I had to eat  yeah I heard about them that would speed  I kept my metabolism going and what  kinds of things are you eating uh  vegetables chicken fish I love the right  way yes all grilled or baked nothing  fried very very healthy right so what  had you done to get 260 pounds heavier  what were you doing everything  everything I was french fries one night  I was oh I was so bad I had a whole  Domino's Pizza No else in Christ extra  crispy yourself look at all about myself  and then I feel guilty in the morning in  tell Tony I was still working out when I  was you know getting uh beginning rings  you know I everybody's watching me go up  and go down and I am an emotional eater  you can tell when my life isn't going so  well because I pick up weight and so was  yours emotional or were you just having  a binge no no I was preparing for a role  actually that I had Tennessee's the film  the producers of monsters ball  uh-huh Lee Daniels yes and it just so  happened that right after Jermaine's  birthday party the 23rd of September  which is when I actually made my first  appearance a lot heavier we were  supposed to to go down south and start  filming and maybe three days before we  were to leave they called me and they  need  the entire project to the new year and I  couldn't do that because you had this  because AMD yeah yeah so sooner was  better for me that rather than so you  gained 60 pounds for a film and then  you're not gonna do the film are you am  I upset yeah I was upset at the fact  that I felt so in love with this  character and I wasn't able to portray  this character more than being upset  that I had to get all this weight and  then turn around and lose it because I  had to lose it regardless there laughter  right so you were doing this  professionally yes so tell me how did it  feel to be at that weight I dread that  it was it was at the highest who ever in  my life in your life yes it was I was  180 180 yes very difficult okay but you  were doing it professionally it was a  point though where you thought okay gone  too far this is not cute yeah it's um  it was it was very uncomfortable for me  yeah I mean I think maybe some people  are okay with it but for me I'm not very  I'm only five for you guys and and it  was a lot of weight on my joints the  only time I felt okay is when I was  sleeping coz I was lying so when I would  get up my ankles was swell all the time  and my knees would hurt and I'm the kind  of person I always sit on counter tops  since I was a kid and I went to go lift  myself onto the countertop and you  couldn't get up there I saw from not  being able to get up there all of this I  hurt all of this on both sides of my  arms I really thought I had really hurt  myself and it's I told Tony about it but  then I remembered you're picking up 60  more pounds than what you normally do to  lift yourself huh and if it really hurt  me  it was it was very very hard to look in  the mirror long as you are Janet Jackson  oh I didn't want to get used to the  person that I would seem in there I  didn't want it to because it's very easy  to get comfortable and that weight and  have 31 flavors  extra-hot first now we're going up you  are enjoying it right oh well they just  ask you this once and for all because I  was only half kidding about the pill  when I asked you the legends like do you  have one but you are saying you did  nothing other than exercise and workout  I took supplements no no no fat burner I  done that before don't get me wrong but  this time David and I wanted to take the  natural route so we took like a  different like a vitamin E or different  things like that just a multivitamin  just so that it stay nice and helped so  you would literally worked her off yeah  I really did so it upsets me sometimes  when people say oh did you just do to  surgery or are they what does they call  the the bypass  yeah and because I really worked hard at  it you really worked well so she let us  follow her around to see what a typical  workout day is like hi Oprah it's me  [Applause]  I am here to show you my well a little  part of my workout regime everyone's  always asking me how did I get the 60  pounds off and so quickly I will  introduce you to one guy that was very  instrumental in making that happen my  trainer Tony 50-feet Martin is Tony's  philosophy work out often no less than  30 minutes five or six days a week and  have a good time doing it one way to  make it fun play some games Tony says  basketball is great for strengthening  and firming your lower body the key  simple exercises with lots of reps  Tony strings multiple moves together  sumo squats work the legs pelvis and  pelvic presses target the tummy and toe  raises isolate the calves Pacifico here  cups up next the upper body  Janet loves her resistance bands they're  like 15 pound weights in a one-pound  package these are very easy to travel  with you could just throw them right in  your luggage  she starts with 30 reps to the side for  the shoulders and then 30 curls to the  front and 30 more to the back look at  the guns I love ya so what's the secret  behind Ms Jackson's famous abs she says  she got them with an exercise ball and  abdominal crunches 100 a day to be exact  you know lay on her back on the ball and  then hands behind your head and just a  basic crunch now sometimes I'll Pat down  a little bit here so what she's known  for the Janet abs right here punches I  have one more exercise to show you want  20 let's get to it  Tori says there's nothing like squats  and lunges to whip that backside into  her face hey guys oh good job good job  I feel stronger already  [Applause]  say traitor listen you can't oppress all  day long but you also have to cut your  food intake drastically yes you do and  it was much easier for me to because I  my body was used to working out before I  gave the weights or the minute it's the  muscle muscle memory so the minute I are  really kicked it into gear it just a  fella well congratulations you look  amazing  [Applause]  coming up what really happened at the  Super Bowl Janet says this will be the  first and last time she talks about it  the first and last that is next  [Music]  [Applause]  call on me with reps dog Nellie from her  new CD 20-ryo  which is in the stores - ma bro it's  good honest it has been now almost two  years since Janet Superbowl halftime  performance made news around the world  take a look it was one of the biggest  nights in television more than 90  million viewers tuned in for the 2004  Super Bowl the halftime show with Janet  Jackson was billed as an event that  would be remembered for years to come  and was it ever for the grand finale  surprise guest Justin Timberlake saying  I'm going to get you naked by the end of  this song and he did just that  ripping Janet's boo CIA is closing her  breast naked except for a large sunburst  shaped ring it was a showstopper was it  an accident nobody knew but it sparked a  firestorm of controversy that swept  across the country even the first lady  weighed in what it represented was a ton  of television viewing that we don't want  little children  see well I don't know if you all know  this but the FCC received more than  500,000 complaints about that broadcast  CBS was fined five hundred and fifty  thousand dollars and then the NFL was  asked to refund the ten million dollars  that they had been given to the halftime  show sponsor so Janet says if this is  going to be the first and the last time  that she ever talks about what happened  that day first of all could you believe  that your breasts caused this global  interest and story no I couldn't I mean  there's so much more going on in the  world that was so much more important I  couldn't believe they put so much  emphasis the moment it happened what did  you think the first wife catches was it  planned Janet no it was written well but  people don't understand is heroes to  take and rip the piece off that he did a  letter piece right but Moore came off  then what was supposed to okay because  there was a little red thing under there  oh you know I have my peers I know you  have your peers are you talking about  the rock Oh Lacey yes so he was supposed  to pull that off and we just see the red  yeah Sarah and he whipped the whole  thing he knew he had you practiced or  whatever before yes we do uh-huh and so  the moment that happened you know I  didn't see it but I just saw it today  for the first time in a picture I've  never I've never seen it until today but  the moment that happened you immediately  covered your breasts mhm yeah because  you didn't want to be exposed mhm  so if you'd wanted to be exposed you  wouldn't have covered it exactly okay  your embarrassing moment it was a very  embarrassing noise and so what did you  what were you doing when this whole  Firestone storm occurred because  immediately after it was all over the  world um I was working on my own  actually uh so that's where my focus in  my mind was for the most part I mean I  heard everything that was going on and  but I obviously I had an album to finish  now as it got bigger and bigger and  bigger what did you think I thought it  was  absurd I thought it was very crazy that  there was so much emphasis put on this  when there we were at war our troops  were over there so many so much more  important things were going on in the  world and the focus was on my breasts it  just that didn't make any sense to me  well 24 hours after that Superbowl Janet  issued an apology and I had read some  another magazine that you regret making  that apologies in truth why oh it was an  accident  and management that I had at the time  they thought it was important that I did  you know with the project coming out and  and ireb said actually before I sat down  to to record the apology that I had said  to them oh boy what are you apologizing  for max well you did say in the apology  you apologize for anybody who might have  been offended right and then they wanted  me to say that so I did they thought it  was best that I do so I did do you think  in any way that Justin Timberlake left  you hanging out there I am speaking to  miss Jackson do you well all the  emphasis was put on me Matt on Justin  and just Justin we were friends and and  not that we we aren't now we haven't  spoken but but I consider him a friend  and I'm very well and friendship is very  important well trust it Justin  Timberlake recently talked about the  incident did you know that I heard okay  on MTV and this is some of what he said  he said if you consider it 50/50 meaning  I think that both of you are up there on  the stage doing this then I probably got  10% of the blame I think America is  harsher on women he said and I think  America is unfairly harsh on ethnic  people so that's  do you think people were too hard on you  I think they were I think they did put  all the emphasis on me and as opposed to  us and I have to say just to let people  know that Justin has reached out to us  we haven't spoken but it has reached out  to speak with me and like I said  friendship is very important to me and  certain things you just don't do to  friends and in my own time in my own  time I'll do certain things you just  don't do the French you think him  ripping the whole thing off is that way  no no no when you had said certain  things were said supposedly or that he  had said during that whole fiasco  I had heard and kind of leaving you out  there hanging so you do feel that he  left you hanging to a certain degree  okay okay and so was that really hard on  you that time how are you were you were  you upset about it were you angry were  you depressed were you did you think it  was hypocritical I thought they were  being harsh but my focus was really on  my album and I was concentrating on that  and I realized that I didn't break down  about it I realized that I was much  stronger than I I thought I was I'm a  very strong woman did you did you read  everything I know you are but did you  read everything so did you know how big  it really got or were people telling  people were telling me I didn't have to  many people were telling me so I knew  what was going on who helped you through  that time Jermaine was very very  instrumental  [Applause]  my family as well and my friends would  reach out to you oh yeah yeah so did you  feel did you feel badly about it I mean  I wish it would have never happened but  it's it's unfortunate but can you do did  you feel it was hypocritical in a way  and a lot of the criticism to a certain  degree I did there's a great deal of  violence on TV yeah and all day long  they're humping people on the video  sorry yeah and I did and I and I don't  know I don't know but I was the woman of  the hour at that woman of the hour  okay when we come back so that was the  first and the last that's that's it  [Applause]  move on when we come back we're gonna  meet the man Germaine that Janet says  has taken her places she's never been  before and I don't think we're talking  about travel here people will be right  back  okay let's I get your main out of the  green room and let's bring them onto the  set  [Music]  Germaine and I have been seeing each  other for five years and I feel this  unconditional love I love everything  about him he's just real very real  they're very loving I'm truly happy so  funny cuz people that I don't even know  will come up to me and say we would  always see your smile that could tell  that you are happy deep down inside and  now when we look at you your eyes just  beam with love and happiness  [Music]  that was Janet Jackson talking about  hip-hop music mogul Jermaine Dupri he  has produced the biggest hits for so  many people Mariah Carey and Alicia Keys  and Usher and so many others and Janet  has not been shy when it comes to  talking about the fireworks between them  let me read you a quote one quote she  says Jermaine has taken me places I  haven't been before please explain that  for the people we're going to eat  yes all in one night so what does it  feel like to have this kind of it's  incredible it's I think God on a regular  basis for him I do and I he knows that I  tell him as well you think God yeah for  us that he has brought him into my life  and brought us together  Jeremy come on up here  [Applause]  so how did y'all meet yeah well I don't  know how did it or not not me but how  did it start how did the fireworks start  Jemaine  I heard he gave you was it a two-way it  was my birthday and I got a two-way  pager that the latest model yeah and I  said so when someone does something like  that you feel obligated you work  together  oh yeah we have well we first met in 91  he came to the Rhythm Nation to our and  that's when we first met and he did the  remix for someone to call my lover how  ironic is that he did the remix to it  and we remained phones from there on out  so for my birthday he got me this  two-way and I felt obligated to give him  my in my info and I said if he's slick  this way he says no he said honestly I  was just giving you a birthday present  really they were being slick now you  know it's a good it was a good gift and  I heard that she wanted it and so you  were just you know well sure I did what  is the one thing about Janet that you  think people really don't know how fine  she is you know just a fine person she's  not quiet people think she's yeah we  think she's shy in that no that's what  we think yeah so you're not shy no I  I've often told people that I'm not shy  at all I'm quiet uh-huh when I'm first  getting to meet a person I need to know  someone but I used to be shy as a kid  but I'm I'm not sure I'm not shy anymore  okay I know you said that Jack that he  made you feel sexy even when you were  overweight I've never been with someone  and in my weight is fluctuating  throughout my life and I've never been  with someone who just looks into my eyes  and grabs all my stuff  [Applause]  [Applause]  I don't mean it like that I mean he  would he would grab my little extra meat  that I had and he would look into my  eyes and say I love you and this needs  love too and what you smile and kiss me  and I've never had that really yeah  that's wonderful  now lately you've been talking about or  at least I've read in some magazines  that you're thinking about children I'd  love to god-willing it's at some point I  guess this has to kind of be soon  hey I'm 40 yeah you are children  together you do you want many children  one I want to do the Jacksons over I'm  gonna do the Jackson  thank you thank you for coming up and  talking to us we'll be right back  coming up where's Janet's brother  Michael does she talk to him I'm gonna  ask her  throwing up I was such a tomboy I was  closest to my brothers and I was hanging  with them in the bank we're always so  good to me and so when they go off on  and on tour I just felt very well it's  very difficult of being in this business  at such a young age and you really be  the price being famous your entire life  really you you miss out on a lot of your  childhood really mm-hmm  and you you have to grow up very very  quickly around adults all the time so  you grew up very very fast and so you  don't did you you played with dolls and  all that though right yeah but I think I  stopped way too soon really because the  Lord is working  yeah and you know the other family  members have it a much harder than I did  yeah  because they were up there on stay  really out there so Janet's new CD  20-ryo refers to the 20th anniversary of  control right yes her breakthrough album  and it was also 20 years ago  that she did that album and also fired  her father Joe Jackson is her manager  how did that change or a father-daughter  relationship you know I actually a  relationship has gotten better you got  better yes I mean it that was one of the  hardest things for me to do I would  think it was and I cried profusely did  you do it yourself yes I did I could see  it like it was just yesterday how did  you do it  my parents were in the upstairs den I  was still living at home and I I told  them that I needed to talk with him and  mother was in there as well and and I  just let him know exactly how I felt and  that of us I'm for me to move on and he  didn't take it very well  he didn't know he did um yeah because  he's been in control yes of everybody  yes family but he knew I I think he felt  it was it was inevitable in this case  when you say he didn't take it very well  to yell at you did he hit younger he was  not angry but he didn't yell at me of  all your brothers and sisters who are  you closest to it switches doesn't yes  I've so many I've heard that in big  families they  switches it could be one person for  several months and then another person  for several months I would say right now  it's germane really mm-hmm do you know  what when I was a kid well not a camp  teenager I'm not you're going to say yes  I wanted to be your sister-in-law  because I wanted to marry Jackie Jackson  yes I always thought you know didn't you  have your favorite Jackson and I was  gonna marry Jackie Jackson so help me I  was gonna do that  it never happened we could have been hey  anyway do you talk to Michael where is  he um he's in the Middle East all right  no I haven't spoken to him since he left  really yes since the job really do you  worry about him uh he keeps in touch  with mothers so we know it's going on  you do know what's going on that trial  how would did that take it to toll on  you it took its toll on my entire family  really it was hard on all of us you know  I heard that you were recording in the  studio after the verdict came in or  before the verdict came in it was the  night we were the night before we were  to go to his house mhm  for the verdict and we waited several  days until they came to their decision I  heard you broke down I don't know I  don't believe what I read so I don't  know  was it a breakdown or was it wasn't no  it wasn't a breakdown I was actually I  was in the studio recording a song on  the album actually it's called enjoying  and I was just doing the backgrounds on  the song and for some reason I just got  this really weird feeling like that came  over me out of nowhere and I started to  cry there were no windows so no one  could see me in the vocal booth oh  really yes and I was doing recording the  backgrounds and it was the funniest  thing Jimmy would say to me he says you  sound just like your brother right now  and I said I do and he didn't know that  I was in a crowd  yeah but I I was thinking about him and  I wasn't trying to sound like him but I  didn't feel something was right  something felt very wrong with me so you  were thinking that the verdict was going  to be something else  no it just so happened that night he had  to be taken to the hospital so I think  that's when it was I didn't feel good he  didn't feel good yeah they're very well  and I think that's what it was I was  feeling him at that moment  and so were you worried about that what  did you think was the worst that could  have happened well he looked  sentenced to jail basically yes yeah or  to prison action hmm yes and so the  family United at sin once one place yes  waiting for him back at the ranch  gee are you close to his children well  this is children are always with him so  that would be hard yes yeah because so  what do you think about the dream of  your life are you living the dream of  your life yes it's a word cuz when I was  five I want to be a horse racing jockey  I been riding since I was five when I  was fourteen I wanted to go to college  and study business law didn't want to be  in show business really I want to be an  actress and decided to try singing again  but do it my way with control and I'm  having such a wonderful time I'm finally  the advice that several family members  have always given me is just sit back  and really enjoy what's going on in your  life enjoy be in the moment and you say  okay okay yeah yeah yeah but I wasn't  until now and now I can look and really  enjoy every single moment being here  with you I'm making the the last album  the tour to come  [Applause]  coming up a performance not to be missed  at the moment a janitor  coming up Janet chairs for personal home  videos and later she's going to perform  for you  hit single so excited  [Music]  for the first time Janet's going to  perform a song from her brand-new CD in  stores tomorrow 20y oh here's Janet  Jackson singing so excited  [Applause]  [Music]  spot  [Applause]  [Applause]  is 20y it in stores tomorrow and our  brand-new XM channel open friends  launches also today so we buddy  Thanks